# Topics and Objectives - Part 1

## **1** Magento Architecture and Customization Techniques

[Back to Index](./) | [Next Section](./2.md)

------


## **1.1** Describe the Magento module-based architecture
[DevDocs- architecture](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/architecture/bk-architecture.html)
[DevDocs- create-a-new-module](https://devdocs.magento.com/videos/fundamentals/create-a-new-module/)
[DevDocs- package_module](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/extension-dev-guide/package/package_module.html)

**Describe module architecture.**
</br>*A.* At its highest level, Magento’s product architecture consists of the core product code plus optional modules. These optional modules enhance or replace the basic product code. Your modules function with the core Magento product code, which is organized into layers. Layered application design offers many advantages, but users of Magento will appreciate:

* Stringent separation of business logic from presentation logic simplifies the customization process. For example, you can alter your storefront appearance without affecting any of the backend business logic.
* Clear organization of code predictably points extension developers to code location.

**Q. What are the significant steps to add a new module?**
</br>*A.* To create a module, you need to complete the following high-level steps:
1. Create the module folder.
2. Create the etc/module.xml file.
3. Create the registration.php file.
4. Run the bin/magento setup:upgrade script to install the new module.
5. Check that the module is working.

**Q. What are the different Composer package types?**
</br>*A.* The Magento application uses Composer packages to distribute, install, and upgrade components in an application instance.
1. metapackage: Technically, a Composer package type, not a Magento component type. A metapackage consists of only a composer.json file that specifies a list of components and their dependencies. For example, both Magento Open Source and Magento Commerce are metapackages.
2. magento2-module: Code that modifies Magento application behavior. You can upload a single module to the Magento Marketplace or your module can be dependent on some parent package.
3. magento2-theme: Code that modifies the look and feel of the storefront or Magento Admin.
4. magento2-language: Translations for the storefront or Admin.

**Q.When would you place a module in the `app/code` folder versus another location?**
</br>*A.* There are two possible locations for modules in Magento 2: the app/code folder and the vendor folder
If you build a module for a specific project, it is best to choose the app/code folder and commit to the project’s repository.
If you build an extension to be reused, it is better to use composer to create it, and put your module in the vendor/<YOUR_VENDOR>/module-something folder.

## **1.2** Describe the Magento directory structure
[Medium- understanding-magento-2-folder-structure](https://medium.com/the-andela-way/understanding-magento-2-folder-structure-704733be3d8b)
[Belvg- directory-structure-and-locating-different-files-in-magento2](https://belvg.com/blog/directory-structure-and-locating-different-files-in-magento2.html)


**Describe the Magento directory structure.**
</br>*A.* 
app/ 
- This folder contains three sub-directories mainly design, i18n and etc by default. The app/code/<CompanyName>/<ModuleName> directory should contain all the custom modules that you have created. It is also recommended to store all your third party modules here.
Your custom store theme should be stored under app/design/frontend subdirectory while the app/design/adminhtml subdirectory should be used to store all your Admin themes.
- app/i18n directory stores language packages. You might want to use this folder if you want to create a multi-language store to suit your customer needs.
- The code subdirectory will be missing after a clean install. All Magento core modules are in the vendor directory in order to avoid the mixing of your custom modules with the Magento core modules. 

phpserver/
- This folder contains the Router.php file whose main purpose is to implement the PHP built-in server. Working with this file is discouraged because it has tons of potentially big security holes. See the READMe

bin/
- This directory contains the Magento CLI executable script. This script activates Magento commands that help in clearing cache, reindexing etc.

setup/
- Contains Magento’s installation setup files.

generated/
- Stores all of Magento’s generated code. By default, Magento generates code to create non-existent factory classes if the class is injected in a constructor.

var/
- Contains generated classes, cache, sessions, database backups, and cached error reports.This folder has a number of sub directories including var/di whose contents are generated once you run php bin/magento setup:di:compile.

- var/log contains magento log files mainly exception.log and system.log files.

- var/cache stores all of Magento’s cache. In order to see your developement changes, it is advisable to continuously clear your cache using this command php bin/magento cache:clean

dev/
- Contains automated functional tests that the Magento Test Framework runs.

lib/
- Stores all Magento and vendor library files. It also contains all the non-module based Magento code. This is mostly system code that aid Magento to run.

pub/
- This directory also contains anindex.php file that is used to run the application in production mode. The pub directory offers a security measure whereby public access to the root directory asset is restricted. This folder also contains generated static files of your Magento theme.


**Q. What are the naming conventions, and how are namespaces established?**
</br>*A.* Modules must conform to Magento conventions regarding code location and file names. The name should be all in lowercase and in the format <vendor-name>/module-<module-name>, using hyphens to separate words 


**Q. How can you identify the files responsible for some functionality?**
</br>*A.* To search for the files responsible for particular functionality, you can use the module configuration files (di.xml) that describes the file structure. You can also use the layout description of the module/theme files to search for specific blocks, or use hints that can be included in the store settings (Stores ➔ Configuration ➔ Advanced ➔ Developer).

## **1.3** Utilize configuration and configuration variables scope
[DevDocs- config-files](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/config-guide/config/config-files.html)
[DevDocs- scope](https://docs.magento.com/m2/ce/user_guide/configuration/scope.html)


**Determine how to use configuration files in Magento.**
</br>*A.* The responsibilities of the config.xml configuration file used in earlier versions of Magento is now divided between several files, located in various module directories. Magento’s multiple configuration files load on demand only when a module requests a specific configuration type. You can use these files—also referred to as configuration types—to customize specific aspects of your module’s behavior.You can use these files—also referred to as _configuration_ types—to customize specific aspects of your module’s behavior.
acl.xml
config.xml
di.xml
module.xml
webapi.xml

**Q. Which configuration files are important in the development cycle?**
</br>*A.* Configuration files that are in the top level of that module’s etc directory are global to that component. Configuration files placed in subdirectories (adminhtml, frontend, webapi_rest, webapi_soap) apply only to those respective functional areas.

**Describe development in the context of website and store scopes.**
</br>*A.* If your Magento installation has a hierarchy of websites, stores, or views, you can set the context, or “scope” of a configuration setting to apply to a specific part of the installation. Some configuration settings such as postal code, have a [global] scope because the same value is used throughout the system. The [website] scope applies to any stores below that level in the hierarchy, including all stores and their views. Any item with the scope of [store view] can be set differently for each store view, which is typically used to support multiple languages.

**Q. How do you identify the configuration scope for a given variable?**
</br>*A.* If the configuration file is located in the directory of an etc/module, its values are located in the global scope. To specify the scope of admin.html or front end configuration, you need to put the configuration file in the etc/frontend or etc/adminhtml folder respectively.

**Q. How do native Magento scopes (for example, **price** or **inventory**) affect development and decision-making processes?**
</br>*A.* For installations with multiple websites, stores, and views, the scope setting determines where products are available for sale, and the product information that is available for each store view. Initially, all products that you create are published to the default website, store, and store view.

**Demonstrate an ability to add different values for different scopes.**
</br>*A.* To configure price scope:

1.	On the Admin menu, tap Stores. Then under Settings, choose Configuration.
2.	In the panel on the left under Catalog, choose Catalog.
3.	Scroll down to the Price section. Then, set Catalog Price Scope to one of the following:
- Global
- Website
- The scope setting that you choose appears below price fields in your catalog.
4.	When complete, tap Save Config.

**Q. How can you fetch a system configuration value programmatically?**
</br>*A.* $configValue = Mage::getStoreConfig('sectionName/groupName/fieldName');


**Q. How can you override system configuration values for a given store using _XML_ configuration?**
</br>*A.* 

## **1.4** Demonstrate how to use dependency injection (DI)
[DevDocs- di-xml](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/extension-dev-guide/build/di-xml-file.html)
[overriding-classes-magento-2](https://inchoo.net/magento-2/overriding-classes-magento-2/)

**Demonstrate the ability to use the dependency injection concept in Magento development.**
</br>*A.* Dependency Injection is a design pattern that allows an object A to declare its dependencies to an external object B that supplies those dependencies. The dependencies declared by A are usually class interfaces and the dependencies B provides are the concrete implementations for those interfaces.
namespace Magento\Backend\Model\Menu;
class Builder
{
    /**
     * @param \Magento\Backend\Model\Menu\Item\Factory $menuItemFactory
     * @param \Magento\Backend\Model\Menu $menu
     */
    public function __construct(
        Magento\Backend\Model\Menu\Item\Factory $menuItemFactory,  // Service dependency
        Magento\Backend\Model\Menu $menu  // Service dependency
    ) {
        $this->_itemFactory = $menuItemFactory;
        $this->_menu = $menu;
    }

    public function processCommand(\Magento\Backend\Model\Menu\Builder\CommandAbstract $command) // API param
    {
        // processCommand Code
    }
}

**Q.** How are objects realized in code? 
</br>*A.* The di.xml file configures the object manager and tells it how to handle dependency injection. This file specifies the preferred implementation class the object manager generates for the interface declared in a class constructor. The file also specifies whether the object manager should create an object for every request or treat the object as a singleton.

**Q. Why is it important to have a centralized object creation process?**
</br>*A.* Large applications, such as the Magento application, use an object manager to avoid boilerplate code when composing objects during instantiation.

**Identify how to use DI configuration files for customizing Magento.**
</br>*A.* The di.xml file configures which dependencies are injected by the object manager. You can also specify sensitive configuration settings using di.xml. Each module can have a global and area-specific di.xml file. Magento reads all the di.xml configuration files declared in the system and merges them all together by appending all nodes.

As a general rule, the area specific di.xml files should configure dependencies for the presentation layer, and your module’s global di.xml file should configure the remaining dependencies.

Magento loads the configuration in the following stages:
1. Initial (app/etc/di.xml)
2. Global (<moduleDir>/etc/di.xml)
3. Area-specific (<moduleDir>/etc/<area>/di.xml)


**Q. How can you override a native class, inject your class into another object, and use other techniques available in `di.xml` (for example, `virtualTypes`)?**
</br>*A.* 
Class preference- To override Magento\Catalog\Model\Product class all we need is to define our preference and to create a file that will extend the original class:
    <config>
        <preference for="Magento\Catalog\Api\Data\ProductInterface" type="Inchoo\Catalog\Model\Product" />
    </config>
    <?php
    namespace Inchoo\Catalog\Model;
    
    class Product extends \Magento\Catalog\Model\Product
    {
    // code
    }

Plugins- Rewriting by class preference can cause conflicts if multiple classes extend the same original class. To help solve this problem a new concept of plugins is introduced. Plugins extend methods and do not change the class itself as rewriting by class preference does, but intercept a method call before, after or around its call.
    <config>
        <type name="Magento\Catalog\Api\Data\ProductInterface">
            <plugin name="inchoo_catalog_product" type="Inchoo\Catalog\Plugin\Model\Product" />
        </type>
    </config>
    <?php
    namespace Inchoo\Catalog\Plugin\Model;
    
    class Product
    {
        public function afterGetName(\Magento\Catalog\Model\Product $subject, $result)
        {
            $result .= ' (Inchoo)';
            return $result;
        }
    }

Constructor arguments - di.xml configures which dependencies will be injected into a class what means that they can be controlled and changed to something that will be useful for us. If a change does not need to be global, but for a specific class, instead of overriding the whole class or creating plugins for different methods we’re able to configure arguments that the class receives.
- Type configuration
One of the arguments that catalog product module receives is a helper \Magento\Catalog\Helper\Product $catalogProduct. With di.xml we can configure to use our helper instead:

    <config>
        <type name="Magento\Catalog\Api\Data\ProductInterface">
            <arguments>
                <argument name="catalogProduct" xsi:type="object">Inchoo\Catalog\Helper\Product</argument>
            </arguments>
        </type>
    </config>

- Virtual type configuration
In the documentation virtual type is defined as a type that allows you to change the arguments of a specific injectable dependency and change the behavior of a particular class.


**Given a scenario, determine how to obtain an object using the ObjectManager object.**
</br>*A.* 

**Q. How would you obtain a class instance from different places in the code?**
</br>*A.* 


## **1.5** Demonstrate ability to use plugins

**Demonstrate an understanding of plugins.**

**Q. How are plugins used in core code?**
</br>*A.* 

**Q. How can they be used for customizations?**
</br>*A.* 


## **1.6** Configure event observers and scheduled jobs

**Demonstrate how to create a customization using an event observer.**

**Q.** How are observers registered? 

**Q.** How are they scoped for frontend or backend? 

**Q.** How are automatic events created, and how should they be used? 

**Q.** How are scheduled jobs configured?


## **1.7** Utilize the CLI

**Describe the usage of `bin/magento` commands in the development cycle.** 

**Q.** Which commands are available? 

**Q.** How are commands used in the development cycle?


## **1.8** Describe how extensions are installed and configured

**Q.** How would you install and verify an extension by a customer's request?
