# Topics and Objectives - Part 2

## **2** Request Flow Processing 

[Previous Section](./1.md) | [Back to Index](./) | [Next Section](./3.md)

------


## **2.1** Describe how to use Magento modes
[xx](html)
[Magento 2 Modes Overview](https://www.customerparadigm.com/difference-between-magento-2-modes/)
[DevDocs: Maintenance Mode](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/install-gde/install/cli/install-cli-subcommands-maint.html)

**Understand the pros and cons of using developer mode or production mode.**
 </br>*A.* 
 _Developer Mode_
 The mode in which all development should* be done. This mode is much slower on the frontend and within the site admin, with the tradeoff that it automatically compiles code and offers more advanced logging and debugging capabilities than Default or Production modes. Caching can be utilized while in developer mode it is typically disabled to speed up development testing. This in combination with the lack of a populated and utilized /pub folder leads to exceptionally slow load times.

The tradeoff for the load times comes in the substantially more comprehensive logging and debugging capabilities Default mode offers which include:

Exceptions appear in the error handler rather than being logged, meaning the actual errors are displayed in the browser rather than displaying just the error number which then has to be tracked down in the file reports at the server.
Exceptions are also thrown in the browser when event subscribers cannot be invoked which leads to faster debugging of extension conflicts.

_Production Mode_
All live Magento 2 sites should be in Production mode. This mode utilizes full page caching alongside a fully built pub folder to pull from, and is optimized to run smoothly and efficiently leading to the greatest customer experience. Debugging is more difficult in Production mode as they are logged at the server level and not displayed to the user on the frontend.

Anytime you switch from Developer to Production mode two actions must first be taken:

Static Deploy- this populates everything in the pub/static folder which a Production M2 site will then build and serve content from.
Compilation- this takes your site’s code and merges it into bytecode which ultimately allows for faster retrieval of classes and results in faster page load times on the frontend.
Production mode is more secure than Default or Developer mode as well due to the fact that there is no symlink created for the pub/static folder. This means if a malicious user were to gain access to pub/static and make changes they would only be changing duplicate versions of those files which would be overwritten during the next static deploy.

**Q. How do you enable/disable maintenance mode?**
</br>*A.* Magento uses maintenance mode to disable bootstrapping; for example, while you’re maintaining, upgrading, or reconfiguring your site.

Command usage:

magento maintenance:enable [--ip=<ip address> ... --ip=<ip address>] | [ip=none]
magento maintenance:disable [--ip=<ip address> ... --ip=<ip address>] | [ip=none]
magento maintenance:status
where

--ip=<ip address> is an IP address to exempt from maintenance mode (for example, developers doing the maintenance). To exempt more than one IP address in the same command, use the option multiple times.


## **2.2** Demonstrate the ability to create a frontend controller with different response types (HTML/JSON/redirect)
[MagePlaza](https://www.mageplaza.com/magento-2-module-development/how-to-create-controllers-magento-2.html)

**Q. How do you identify which module/controller corresponds to a given URL?**
</br>*A.* 

**Q. What would you do to create a given URL?**
</br>*A.* 
Step 1: Create routes.xml file.
	<?xml version="1.0" ?>
	<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:App/etc/routes.xsd">
		<router id="standard">
			<route frontName="helloworld" id="helloworld">
				<module name="Mageplaza_HelloWorld"/>
			</route>
		</router>
	</config>

Step 2: Create controller file
	<?php
	namespace Mageplaza\HelloWorld\Controller\Index;

	class Index extends \Magento\Framework\App\Action\Action
	{
		protected $_pageFactory;

		public function __construct(
			\Magento\Framework\App\Action\Context $context,
			\Magento\Framework\View\Result\PageFactory $pageFactory)
		{
			$this->_pageFactory = $pageFactory;
			return parent::__construct($context);
		}

		public function execute()
		{
			return $this->_pageFactory->create();
		}
	}

Step 3: Create Layout file
	<?xml version="1.0"?>
	<page xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" layout="1column" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:View/Layout/etc/page_configuration.xsd">
		<referenceContainer name="content">
			<block class="Mageplaza\HelloWorld\Block\Index" name="helloworld_index_index" template="Mageplaza_HelloWorld::index.phtml" />
		</referenceContainer>
	</page>

Step 4: Create Block file
	<?php
	namespace Mageplaza\HelloWorld\Block;
	class Index extends \Magento\Framework\View\Element\Template
	{

	}

Step 5: Create template file
	<h2>Welcome to Mageplaza.com</h2>

Step 6: Flush Magento cache


## **2.3** Demonstrate how to use URL rewrites for a catalog product view to a different URL
[Magento User Docs](https://docs.magento.com/m2/ce/user_guide/catalog/catalog-urls.html)

**Q. How is the user-friendly URL of a product or category defined? How can you change it?**
</br>*A.* The URLs you assign to products and categories play a major role in determining how well your site is indexed by search engines. 
_URL Formats Dynamic URL_
A dynamic URL is created “on the fly,” and might include a query string with variables for the product ID, sort order, and the page where the request was made. When a customer searches for a product in your store, the resulting URL might look something like this:
	http://mystore.com/catalogsearch/result/?q=racer+back
	http://mystore.com/women/tops-women.html?style_general=135

_Static URL_
A static URL is a fixed address for a specific page. A static URL can be displayed in a search-engine friendly format, or one that references products and categories by ID.

	http://mystore.com/antonia-racer-tank.html


_To configure catalog URLs:_
- On the Admin sidebar, tap Stores. Then under Settings, choose Configuration.
- In the panel on the left under Catalog, choose Catalog.
- Expand  the Search Engine Optimizations section, and do the following:
- Set Product URL Suffix to “html” or “htm.” Enter the suffix without a period, because it is applied automatically.
- Set Category URL Suffix to “html” or “htm.” Enter the suffix without a period, because it is applied automatically.
- Set Use Categories Path for Product URLs to your preference.

**Q. How do you determine which page corresponds to a given user-friendly URL?**
</br>*A.* URL Components URL Key
The URL key is the part of a static URL that describes the product or category. When you create a product or category, an initial URL key is automatically generated, based on the name. The URL key should consist of lowercase characters with hyphens to separate words.

