# Topics and Objectives - Part 3

## **3** Customizing the Magento UI

[Previous Section](./2.md) | [Back to Index](./) | [Next Section](./4.md)

------

## **3.1** Demonstrate the ability to customize the Magento UI using themes
[DevDocs: Themes](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/frontend-dev-guide/css-guide/css_quick_guide_overview.html)
[Packt](https://subscription.packtpub.com/book/web_development/9781783280612/1/ch01lvl1sec12/magento-theme-hierarchy)

**Demonstrate the ability to customize the Magento UI using themes.**
</br>*A.* High-level steps to create a theme and change styles

	1. Create a directory for the theme under app/design/frontend/<your_vendor_name>/<your_theme_name>.

		To create the directory for your theme:

		Go to <your Magento install dir>/app/design/frontend.

		Create a new directory named according to your vendor name: /app/design/frontend/<Vendor>.

		Under the <vendor> directory, create a directory named according to your theme.

		app/design/frontend/
		├── <Vendor>/
		│   │   ├──...<theme>/
		│   │   │   ├── ...
		│   │   │   ├── ...

	2. Add a declaration file theme.xml and optionally create etc directory and create a file named view.xml to the theme directory.

		Add or copy from an existing theme.xml file to your theme directory app/design/frontend/<Vendor>/<theme>.

		Configure it using the following example:

		<theme xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Config/etc/theme.xsd">
			<title>New theme</title> <!-- your theme's name -->
			<parent>Magento/blank</parent> <!-- the parent theme, in case your theme inherits from an existing theme -->
			<media>
				<preview_image>media/preview.jpg</preview_image> <!-- the path to your theme's preview image -->
			</media>
		</theme>
		If you do not have a preview image for your theme, remove the <media> node:

		<theme xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Config/etc/theme.xsd">
			<title>New theme</title> <!-- your theme's name -->
			<parent>Magento/blank</parent> <!-- the parent theme, in case your theme inherits from an existing theme -->
		</theme>

	3. Add a composer.json file.
		Example of a theme composer.json file:

		{
			"name": "magento/theme-frontend-luma",
			"description": "N/A",
			"require": {
				"php": "~5.5.0|~5.6.0|~7.0.0",
				"magento/theme-frontend-blank": "100.0.*",
				"magento/framework": "100.0.*"
			},
			"type": "magento2-theme",
			"version": "100.0.1",
			"license": [
				"OSL-3.0",
				"AFL-3.0"
			],
			"autoload": {
				"files": [
					"registration.php"
				]
			}
		}

	4. Add registration.php.

		To register your theme in the system, add a registration.php file in your theme directory with the following content:

			<?php
			/**
			* Copyright © 2015 Magento. All rights reserved.
			* See COPYING.txt for license details.
			*/
			\Magento\Framework\Component\ComponentRegistrar::register(
				\Magento\Framework\Component\ComponentRegistrar::THEME,
				'frontend/<Vendor>/<theme>',
				__DIR__
			);

	5. Create directories for CSS, JavaScript, images, and fonts.

		Your theme will likely contain several types of static files:

		Styles
		Fonts
		JavaScript

		Images
		Each type should be stored in a separate sub-directory of web in your theme folder:

		app/design/<area>/<Vendor>/<theme>/
		├── web/
		│ ├── css/
		│ │ ├── source/ 
		│ ├── fonts/
		│ ├── images/
		│ ├── js/

	6. Configure your theme in the Admin panel.



**Q. When would you create a new theme?**
</br>*A.* Luma inherits from Blank, which contains all the basic functionality and styling required for a theme. You can use either Luma or Blank for your storeview, if there is literally nothing you want to change in their design. But if there is something you want to improve, the only recommended way is creating a new theme. It can inherit from Blank or Luma so you can preserve all you need, and change or add whatever is required.

**Q. How do you define theme hierarchy for a project?**
</br>*A.* Magento has a hierarchy in place for its themes, which tells the system where to look for files if multiple themes are active on different stores on your website. Website -> Store (yourstore.com) -> Store View. 

 Imagine that your store has a theme called newtheme installed at the store view level. The Magento theme here requests a file called styles.css in the most specific interface and package first, so if you have a custom theme enabled, Magento will look in /skin/frontend/default/newtheme first. If it's not found in these directories, Magento looks in the default interfaces next: /app/design/frontend/default/default or /skin/frontend/default/default. Next, Magento will look in the base directories: /app/design/frontend/base/default or /skin/frontend/base/default. If the specified file is not found after that, Magento will encounter a rendering error.

So, the deeper down the hierarchy tree of themes the file is, the more specific it is and the more precedence it takes over other more general files.


## **3.2** Demonstrate an ability to create UI customizations using a combination of a block and template
[Templates customization ](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/frontend-dev-guide/templates/template-walkthrough.html)

	To customize a template:
		1. Locate the template which is associated with the page/block you want to change using template hints.
		2. Copy the template to your theme folder according to the template storing convention.
		3. Make the required changes.
	To add a new template in a theme:
		1. Add a template in your theme directory according to the template storing convention.
		2. Assign your template to a block in the corresponding layout file.



**Q. How do you assign a template to a block?**
</br>*A.* 
	The template is specified in the template attribute of the <block> layout instruction.

	Take this example from app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/layout/catalog_category_view.xml:

		<block class="Magento\Catalog\Block\Category\View" name="category.image" template="Magento_Catalog::category/image.phtml">

	The category.image block is rendered by the image.phtml template in the category subdirectory of the Magento_Catalog module templates directory.

	The templates directory of Magento_Catalog is app/code/Magento/Catalog/view/frontend/templates.

**Q. How do you assign a different template to a native block?**
</br>*A.* 


## **3.3** Identify the uses of different types of blocks
[Blocks](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_block.html)
In functional tests we use Page Object Design Pattern . Under this pattern, a block is an area of the UI that a test interacts with, and a page is a container for blocks.

	Magento\Mtf\Block\Block
	Magento\Mtf\Block\Form
	Magento\Backend\Test\Block\Widget\Tab
	Magento\Backend\Test\Block\Widget\FormTabs
	Magento\Backend\Test\Block\Widget\Grid
	Magento\Ui\Test\Block\Adminhtml\DataGrid

**Q. When would you use non-template block types?**
</br>*A.* 


## **3.4** Describe the elements of the Magento layout XML schema, including the major XML directives
</br>*A.* 
	<title> = 
	<parent> = In the theme’s theme.xml file, you can specify the <parent/> node, like:
			<parent>Magento/blank</parent>. As such, a theme can be a part of (or the
			end of) many layers of other themes.
	<media> = 



**Q. How do you use layout XML directives in your customizations?**
</br>*A.* 

	Common layout instructions
	Use the following layout instructions to customize your layout:

	<block>
	<container>
	before and after attributes
	<action>
	<referenceBlock> and <referenceContainer>
	<move>
	<remove>
	<update>
	<argument>


**Q. How do you register a new layout file?**
</br>*A.* 

	Override theme layouts
	To add an overriding theme file (to override a parent theme layout):

	Put a layout file with the same name in the following location:
	<theme_dir>
	|__/<Namespace_Module>
		|__/layout
		|__/override
			|__/theme
				|__/<Parent_Vendor>
				|__/<parent_theme>
					|--<layout1>.xml
					|--<layout2>.xml
	These files override the following layouts:

	<parent_theme_dir>/<Namespace>_<Module>/layout/<layout1>.xml
	<parent_theme_dir>/<Namespace>_<Module>/layout/<layout2>.xml


## **3.5** Create and add code and markup to a given page
[xx](html)

**Q. How do you add new content to existing pages using layout XML?**
</br>*A.* 
